Mark my words, Lawrence, if
these teetotalers get their
way
prohibition will be enacted.
It'll never happen, sir.
You can actually make
your own record, Francis.
In shellac, right, Mother?
And play it on
your own gramophone.
- Isn't that thrilling?
- Fascinating.
A man's libation is
sacred,
worth going to war over.
The war to end all wars
wasn't enough for you,
Father?
Elizabeth, please restrain our
young filly from eavesdropping.
I'm 18, Father,
hardly a filly.
Lawrence, I don't
know how you
tolerate
Francis'
behavior
the way you do.
I find her spirit refreshing,
if somewhat droll.
And I find being spoken about
as if I weren't present
somewhat irksome.
That is quite
enough out of you.
Mary Pickford's got
a new picture out.
- Should we all go?
- You two go.
I've had my fill of
female
histrionics for one
day.
Don't frown, dear.
It makes you look so dour.
Votes for women.
Ratify the 19th Amendment
so women can vote!
Speak of the devil.
Teetotalers themselves.
(female #1)
'Votes for women.'
Ratify the 19th Amendment
so women can vote
'all across our great land.
'Votes for women.'
Votes for women.
Here we go again.
(male #1)
'A woman's place
is in the kitchen.'
Not rabble-rousing
in the street!
You are the rabble-rousers.
What on Earth
are you doing?
They're awfully brave.
They're an awful
nuisance
is what they are.
instrumental music]
Are you Detective Rush?
Yes. And you are?
Emma Stone.
My Women's Study professor
mentioned you
in a lecture.
Really?
Yeah, she
tracks women
in traditionally
male-dominated
professions.
Says you're the only
female
homicide detective in
Philly.
Well, there are two
of us now, actually.
Uh, my great-great aunt
Francis Stone was
murdered.
- Great-great?
- 1919.
She was thrown off
the second story
landing
of my great-great
grandfather's
house.
"Old Money."
"Grand Houses and the Families
who lived in them
"in turn of the century
Philadelphia."
My grandmother's
favorite book.
The earmarked pages
are about my family.
Now that's what I call a house.
(Emma)
'It's all gone now.'
The house, the money.
The suspects.
My Grammy Stone gave this to me
before she died last week.
His name was
Lawrence Wakeley.
He was Francis' fiance.
And that's Francis?
She's beautiful.
They broke off the
engagement
just before she was killed.
Grammy Stone say anything else?
No, but I found this
hidden
inside the locket.
I think it's a love letter.
"My dearest Phil,
if our secret passion's
revealed
"our lives would be
in great danger.
'"We must proceed
with caution.'
"Yours as ever, Francis."
So Franny was stepping out.
And maybe the fiance
found out, killed her?
So you'll look into it?
Solving this case isn't gonna
bring back the good old days.
Francis' murder
haunted my Grammy Stone.
She was as close to a mother
as I ever had.
So you're doing this for her?
- It'll be our coldest job
yet.
- Record breaker.
So what are we waiting for?
Let's break out the ice picks.
(Lilly)
'"On June 23rd, 1919'
"Francis May Stone died
of injuries caused by a
fall
from the second
story
of their house.
Broke her neck.
Scratches on the forearms,
defensive wounds.
It means Francis
put up a fight.
Her family wasn't home.
No witnesses, no leads.
- Pretty thin.
- The Stones were rich.
Father owned one of the
largest
breweries in Philly.
You'd think there'd
be
a big investigation.
Unless the family
didn't want a scandal.
Keep their names
out of the press.
So what do we got on our
potential doer Lawrence Wakeley?
Uh, just the locket,
the note.
And these gossip columns
the old hat squad had
in their investigation.
"The setting could not
have been more perfect
"for the engagement
of Mr. Lawrence Wakeley
"to Miss. Francis Stone."
I had this
made for you.
Who is this
handsome devil?
I'd like
to
meet him.
Don't joke, Francis.
I'm sorry. I'll
treasure it.
Thank you.
I had something else
made for you, as well.
Will you marry me,
Francis Stone?
Oh, Lawrence, I
don't
know what to say.
I do. Because our life
is going to be grand.
I know just the house
we'll live in that you'll run
and just the number
of children we'll have--
But I don't know if I even want
to run a house or have children.
Francis..
'...what kind of talk
is that?'
I was accepted at
Vassar, you know.
But you've already
found a husband.
Is that all you
think
college is for?
I know you love
your books, Francis.
I want to do more
than read,
Lawrence.
I want to
experience
life, firsthand.
I want to see the
world,
maybe write about it.
Your father already gave
his blessing to our marriage.
So what I want is really
beside
the point, anyway, isn't it?
Francis, this should be
the happiest day of your
life.
I mean, I am quite a catch,
as they say.
I know you are, Lawrence.
Excuse me, ma'am, sir.
Both your parents
were wondering
if there was any news
you'd like to convey.
Well, Francis, is there?
Yes, there is.
Tell them I have accepted
the proposal of Mr.
Wakeley.
Francis, you are going
to be so happy.
I know you are.
(male #2)
'Mr. Wakeley, Miss Stone.'
The woman with the black
eye, here in the corner.
Her name is listed as
Philippa Abruzzi, housemaid.
(John)
'Philippa.'
- Phil.
- 'Rush. Uh-huh.'
That's who Francis's
love note was addressed to.
No wonder she was so afraid
of their secret passion
being revealed.
(Lilly)
'Okay, thanks.'
Sorry, boss. Gotta make a run.
I-I'll be back.
Get up, Mom.
Lilly. Wh-what
are you doing here?
I could ask you the same
thing,
but I won't.
Thank you for coming.
Now go away.
I don't want you
to see me like this.
Like it would be a first.
Oh, Jackie left me.
When?
I haven't heard from him
in five months.
Is that why you
haven't
returned my calls?
Call.
Let's go, Mom.
Squad car's gonna
take you home.
And you can't?
No, Mom.
Oh, right.
Your precious J-O-B.
I'll come by
the apartment later.
Don't bother.
We could've come
to see you, Audrey.
Oh, and miss the chance to get
out of old folk's calisthenics?
Oh, please.
You're doing me a favor.
[chuckles]
And looks like you've been
doing calisthenics.
We'd like to ask you
some questions
about your mother, Philippa.
She worked for
the Stone family?
Oh, for 10 years.
Can you tell us about her
relationship with Francis
Stone?
Oh, sure.
I grew up in that house
till the Stones went broke
on account of Prohibition
and they had to fire everyone.
Your mom and
Francis were close?
Oh, like sisters.
[chuckles]
Francis was
a natural born teacher.
Taught my mom to read.
Unusual for the time
women from different classes
getting close.
Oh, very.
Francis was a modern
girl
for her day.
Very progressive.
Any chance they were..
...closer than sisters?
Like lovers?
Hmm, men love to think that,
don't they?
We found what appears
to be a love letter
from Francis
to your mother.
Very sorry to disappoint you,
but no, they weren't.
Although sometimes
I wish they had been.
My mother had
terrible taste in men.
Anyone you can think of
maybe get the wrong idea
about your mom and Francis?
All I know is my mother
and Francis did have a secret
but it wasn't sexual.
- Hi, Aunt Franny.
- Hello, Audrey.
Will you read me
a story later?
Yes, but I need to talk
to your mother right
now.
About her black eye?
- My dad gave it to her.
- Audrey. Go upstairs.
Is that true, Phil?
He hit you?
It's your fault. You never
should have taught me to read.
(Francis)
'He hit you for reading?'
For reading this.
He hates suffragettes.
- He should be arrested.
- For hitting his wife?
They'd have to arrest
half the men in Philadelphia.
I saw them passing
these
out getting pelted.
I like how they
don't back down.
Me, too.
There's a
meeting
tomorrow night.
If my husband caught me
at a suffragette meeting..
If your husband came to a
meeting, they'd string him
up.
Now that's a sight
I'd like to see.
Just think if we
could vote, Phil.
Men would have
to listen to us.
Treat us like equals.
Now that's a
sight
I'd like to see.
My father
treating
me as something
other than
his little
filly.
We could pass laws punishing men
who beat their wives.
And Audrey, she
could
become a lawyer..
...send those
jackasses to
jail.
It hurts
to even think about.
It hurts not to.
So their secret passion
was political?
They were suffragettes.
Opens up a whole new
suspect pool.
Like all the men
who were opposed
to women getting the vote.
- Like Francis' father.
- Why's that?
Oh, because he knew that women
were the driving force
behind prohibition.
And prohibition
is what ruined him.
Granny Stone didn't like
to toss much.
You really think
Francis's father
might have killed
his own daughter?
Well, if he thought
she was betraying him, sure.
Seen murders happen
for a lot less.
Check this out.
Sophie Tucker.
She was Elizabeth's favorite.
(Nick)
'iPod of 1919.'
I think I found something.
What?
Francis's diary.
"June 14, 1919.
"I should be overjoyed
at Lawrence's proposal
"but all I can think about
"is mother
reading
to me as a girl.
"How excited she was
by the words
"the places described.
And how she is now..
"...needlepointing
her life away."
Sounds like Franny wanted more.
June 15, the last entry.
(Nick)
'Anything about her father?'
No, her first
suffragette
meeting.
"I felt like
"Alice In
Wonderland"
"entering that house,
through the looking
glass
"and peering into
my very own future
"one where my ideas were
appreciated, not
patronized
"by a woman unlike any
I had ever met before."
(Alice)
'Half the legislators
are in favor of
ratification.'
'And half are against, with
less
than a dozen undecided.'
'And the vote is
in less than two weeks.'
'So the question is how to
best
influence those undecideds'
'to our way of thinking.'
What do you think?
- Me?
- Yes, you.
Well, I just came
to listen, really.
You haven't had enough
of listening
to men decide our future?
I.. What was the question?
'How to get
the undecided men'
in the Pennsylvania
legislature
to ratify the 19th Amendment.
Well, maybe, I..
...I think we could
picket their houses.
Let them know we
know who they
are.
That's very good. Miss?
Stone. Francis Stone.
And this is
Philippa
Abruzzi.
Ah, why are you here, Francis?
I saw you on the street,
standing up to those men.
Fearless.
I want to be like that.
A suffragette has
to be tough, Francis.
Tough enough
to withstand shouts
and projectiles
and even fists.
Are you ready for that?
I'd like to think I am.
Pardon me, ladies.
Francis, come along.
- But, mother--
- Now!
And you.
I dragged her here, Mother.
No one just barges
into my home uninvited.
You, and your kind
will leave my daughter
out of your sordid
affairs.
I came on my own accord, Mother.
And you will leave on
your own accord as
well.
And if I refuse?
Someone will be
looking for a new
job.
Good day, ladies.
We're not ladies, lady.
We're suffragettes.
This little rebellion
of yours ends now,
Francis.
Or else.
And diary ends there.
I had no idea there was a
civil war going on in my
family.
So it wasn't the dad
that had it out for her.
It was mother
against daughter.
And Elizabeth wasn't
the backing down type.
You mind if we take
this with us?
My grandmother used
to needlepoint these.
Domestic angels.
What's a domestic angel?
Perfect woman, or what they
thought was one back then.
See any that look like me?
Single, working moms?
"A meeting
of the Philadelphia Chapter
"of the Woman's Suffrage
Association will take place
"on June 15th at the home
of chapter president
Alice B. Harris."
'Well, that's the meeting
Elizabeth Stone'
dragged Francis out of.
There are notes
on the back, handwritten.
Francis'?
"A woman's first obligation is
to maintain domestic harmony."
Sounds more like Elizabeth.
Like she was preparing
to give Francis a lecture.
Yeah, and these are
her talking points.
I cannot believe you dragged me
out of that meeting.
How did you even know
I was there?
Did you go in my room?
Search through my things?
Lawrence told
me you're having
second thoughts
about the engagement.
Oh!
What is happening
to you, Francis?
Why should men have the right
to vote and we shouldn't?
Because politics is a dirty
business full of dirty men.
And we need to keep our hands
clean, is that it?
We have a responsibility
to remain above the fray.
Phil's husband beats her,
do you know that?
That's their business.
And there is nothing
she can do about it
because she doesn't
have any rights.
And what about
you, Mother?
Needlepointing all night
while Father's out
doing God knows what.
Your father
has a business to run.
And you have a what,
a household?
Is that really all you want?
Why do you try and hide
how smart you are?
It's like you're ashamed of it.
On the contrary,
I'm proud of who I am.
Of this family
of your father's
accomplishments.
If women get the vote..
...prohibition will be enacted
and this family
will be ruined.
Is that what you want?
I want to accomplish
something on my own.
And what about
my accomplishments?
I've dedicated my life to this
family, to who and what we are.
I won't survive
our ruination.
But you can save us.
You know what they're up to.
You want me to spy on them?
A woman's lot in life
is hard, Francis.
Her choices, few.
Please, Mother,
don't ask this of
me.
The sooner you accept the
truth,
the better off you'll be.
Now that's a mom who knows
how to lay down a guilt trip.
And if Francis caved
betrayed the suffragettes
like her mom wanted..
Suffragettes
become the suspects.
'Cause those women
weren't fooling around.
Especially not with a
Benedict Arnold in their
midst.
(Lilly)
'Mom. You awake?'
Uh.
I haven't had
a chance to tidy up.
I don't have the energy I
just used to have, you know?
[sighs]
Well, maybe
if you eat something
it might help settle
the vodka.
I feel so tired all the time.
What you need to do, Mom,
is stop making excuses
and start going
to your AA meetings again.
I will.
I
promise.
That's what you said
last time.
I'm cleaning up your messes
since I was a kid.
I know.
(Ellen)
'Oh!'
It's gotta stop.
It will. I-I'm getting
too old for this.
No, I'm the one that's
getting
too old for this.
You think I like
being like this?
Sometimes I think you do.
I got a lot
of good years left.
I could still
meet someone, huh?
You clean up real nice.
You always have.
Yeah.
Well, that's exactly
what I'm going to do.
I'm really
going
to do it this
time.
Oh, I promise, Lilly.
I promise.
- I'm Detective Rush.
- Lilly Rush?
The only female homicide
detective in Philadelphia?
(Nick)
Well, there's two now.
And I'm Detective Vera,
one of the nameless male horde.
Your student, Emma Stone,
came to see us
about her relative's murder.
How can I help?
You're an expert
on the suffragette movement?
- Alice B. Harris?
- Wrote my thesis on her.
Well, she might not be
the hero you think she is.
What could possibly
make you believe that?
'Well, Alice was the leader
of the women's movement'
in Philly, right?
(Nick)
'Which means if
someone betrayed her'
she'd have the most to lose.
Who would betray Alice?
Emma's relative, Francis Stone.
Because her family
owned the brewery.
Wanted to put the
suffragettes
out of business
because of their support
of prohibition.
Francis spied on
Alice for her family.
And we think Alice might
have found out, killed her.
But Francis Stone
wasn't a traitor.
How do you know?
Because I had the honor
of interviewing Alice
before she died.
She talked
about Francis?
I have the recordings
in here.
Alice had high
hopes for Francis.
Then again,
she had high hopes
for the women's movement too.
'Wanted votes for women
in every country.'
'Here's the file.'
(Alice on speaker)
'I remember one girl
in particular'
'who I thought was the face
of our movement.'
'All heart and no guile.'
Are you sure
it's wise to put
the legislators' names
on the banners, Alice?
They have to know
we know who they are.
Isn't that what you said?
Remember, Francis,
we're only as
strong..
(together)
As our greatest fear.
Where's your friend, Francis
the one who came
to the last meeting with you?
She couldn't make it.
Did your mother fire her?
No, but..
I'm not feeling very well.
Will you excuse me?
I know who
your father is, Francis.
You do?
I'm a suffragette
not a teetotaler.
If you knew,
then why allow me
to join your chapter?
Because I trust you.
You shouldn't.
- You think you're trapped?
- I am.
You're a spoiled, rich girl
living in a gilded cage.
But you are also a smart
passionate young woman
who knows right from wrong.
A woman who would never
betray what she believes in.
How can you be so sure?
Because I was just like you
not so long ago.
- You were?
- In over my head.
Not sure what
I'd really got myself into.
Not even sure
if it was worth it.
But it was?
We are going to change
the course of history,
Francis.
How many people do you know
who could say that?
This is an illegal
gathering.
You're all under arrest.
It wasn't me.
I didn't tell anyone.
- I know.
- What's the meaning of this?
There are no laws
against a gathering of women.
There's been a report
of illegal activity.
What illegal activity?
- Operating a bordello.
- That's absurd.
You want to add resisting
arrest
to the prostitution charges?
You know when I said
you had to be tough?
I'm ready.
If women today knew what women
back then had to go through
they wouldn't take
the vote for granted.
No mention in the murder file
of Francis ever being
arrested.
That's odd.
Everyone at that meeting was.
It's documented.
June 23rd, 1919.
It's the same day
Francis was killed.
(Scotty)
'Well, Alice Harris'
and four other
women were booked
into Broad Street
Station at, uh..
..5:37 p.m. on June 23rd.
Incarcerated on charges
of deviant sexual behavior
and resisting arrest.
Held for three days before
a judge voided the charges.
Only one other woman
was taken into custody
at Broad Street that day.
Yeah. Jane Smith.
At 5:37.
A single white female
placed in a holding
cell
until further notice.
Exact same time.
No way that's a coincidence.
Well, Stone's a famous
name in Philly back
then.
Yeah, jailor might have
separated her out
used Smith as an alias because
Francis was a society girl.
Mm.
6:23 p.m.
A Mr. Smith
and Jones request
and receive permission
to see the prisoner.
Well,
according
to the log
jailor escorted Smith
and Jones to the cell
knowing how
agitated
the men were
how the older one stood back
to let the younger one get
the first crack at the
prisoner.
(male #3)
'Right this way, gentlemen.'
(Lawrence)
'Francis?'
Lawrence?
How did you?
All that matters is
I'm here to get you out.
They arrested us for no reason.
I know, but it's over now.
- All this silliness.
- Silliness?
They hit Alice in the head
with a nightstick.
(Lawrence)
'We're going to forget
about that now.'
Move forward.
Get married.
Just like we talked about.
I don't wanna get married.
(Francis)
'I'm sorry, Lawrence.'
I want more for my life.
I tried, sir.
Are you really willing
to give up everything
for this so-called cause?
Think before you answer,
my dear, because this could be
the most important decision
of your life.
What are you saying?
You've never been poor
never been treated like a
second class citizen but I
have.
I have, too, Father,
every time you dismiss me
as though I were
your stupid, little filly.
I'm warning you, Francis.
Your beliefs won't
keep you warm at night
or put food in your stomach.
Are you threatening
to disown me?
Unless you change your mind.
Forswear those corrupting women
right here, right now.
I can't.
I'm sorry, Father.
So be it.
You're dead to me.
And to your mother.
Mother knows I'm here?
Your friend, Philippa,
told us everything.
Phil?
I don't believe it.
How do you think
we knew about the meeting?
That can't be.
It's easy to have ideals
when you're rich, Frances.
Not so easy
when you're poor.
As you're about to find out.
Father, wait!
Well, rubber meets the road.
Frances couldn't hack it.
Yeah. Mr. Smith,
aka Ambrose Stone
bailed Francis out
of jail that night.
That couldn't have
been
easy going back home
to the best friend
who betrayed you.
Yeah. If I were Francis,
I'd have come down hard on
Phil.
Yeah, and maybe
Phil fought back.
Hate to tell you this,
Audrey,
but looks like your mother
Phil, betrayed
her best buddy.
Sold her down the river.
My mother loved Francis.
She was the Benedict
Arnold
of the suffragettes.
Oh! My mother
was a good woman.
There's a reason..
...she didn't go to that
second
meeting at Alice Harris's.
Because she
tipped off the police.
It was all my fault.
You were
seven years old.
You don't know what it was
like
for mothers back then.
'Once a woman had a child..'
...she was helpless.
Helpless how?
I..
...I promised her
I'd never say.
But..
...she had no choice.
- No choice about what, Audrey?
- The times she lived in.
Well, murder's the same now
as it was back then.
Yes, but being a woman
was entirely different.
- How could you?
- Go away, Frances.
- You tell me why first.
- You wouldn't understand.
Did my father pay
you,
is that it?
You think I would
betray you for money?
Your husband
beat you again?
I've been beaten before,
and I'll get beaten again.
Then why?
For Audrey.
He hurt her?
He said he'd divorce me,
take me to court
have me judged
by a jury of his peers.
Because juries are all men.
And once they heard
I was a suffragette
they'd take her
away from me.
Never let me see
my own daughter again.
What can I do?
What choice did I have?
I betrayed
us,
too, Phil..
...and for a lot less.
For safety, for
comfort,
for my gilded cage.
It's a nice cage, Frances.
No one can blame you
for wanting to stay in it.
Alice said, "We're only as
strong as our greatest
fear."
Mine is losing Audrey.
I thought mine was being
disowned, but it's not.
It's being a coward.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to
go
back to that
jail
fight to get Alice
and the others out.
And get re-arrested?
I'd rather be
in a cage with
bars
than be here
and hate
myself.
- I'll go with you.
- No, no.
Audrey needs you
more than we do.
Be careful.
I'm through being careful.
My mother did
what she had to do for me..
...and Frances did what she
had
to do for all of us.
But someone stopped her
before she had the
chance.
Someone in that house,
listening to Sophie Tucker.
The police report said no one
was home but the servants.
But there was music playing?
Sophie Tucker,
Elizabeth's favorite.
There was
only one gramophone.
That one, Elizabeth's.
Grammy Stone said
after Francis died
'Elizabeth became a recluse,
shut herself up in her room.'
'With her needlepoint...
and books.'
Hmm, there's a record here.
"The Market Street
Recording Studio."
Looks like Elizabeth
made a recording.
August 18th, 1920.
August 18th?
Does the date mean something?
That's the date
the 19th Amendment was ratified
'gave women the
right to vote.'
(Lilly)
'Odd day to make a recording'
especially since Elizabeth
was against the whole thing.
(Elizabeth on gramophone)
'How happy you would have been'
'to know that the
day you dreamed of'
'has finally arrived, my dear.'
'I'm making this record
so that I can play it alone'
'over and over again.'
And where do you think
you're going at this hour?
Out, Mother.
Not if I have anything
to say about it.
I'm through being told
what to do by you.
Or anyone else
for that matter.
Except that
coven
of riffraff.
Why do they frighten
you so much, Mother?
They don't frighten me.
Then come with me.
See for yourself
what they are really like.
Don't be absurd.
Absurd is thinking women
are just domestic angels.
Absurd is thinking we need men
to decide how we should live.
Why can't you accept
that
I'm happy the way I am
and you can be, too?
Because you're
not happy, Mother.
You're just
too scared to admit it.
I am a wife
and a mother.
What more can
a woman ask for?
Her freedom.
Don't you want that?
What you want
will never
happen.
Can't you see I am trying to
save you from disappointment?
You're the one
who's disappointed, Mother
in the bill of goods you
bought
hook, line and sinker.
I'm a realist, Francis.
Hoping for a future
that will never
happen
is simply too painful.
So you do want more?
I am happy
with what I have.
I'm sorry, Mother, but this cage
simply isn't big enough for me.
It's not a cage.
Yes, it is,
you just can't see it.
How dare you.
My life is not a lie.
- Let me go, Mother.
- No.
I'm happy, damn it, happy!
Oh!
No!
Francis! Oh, oh!